There aren't too many programs that has the ability to do this but what I'd like to do is actually setup
my screen here set up my interface so that I can animate the 3D body and the 2D face all in the same
view all in the same interface.
So since I'll be creating a 2D face I kind of want that 2D animation screen layout.
Now we don't see it here.
When you create a new scene you have the option of choosing to the animation here but it isn't.
Up here in the tabs at least currently in this version.
So what we can do is click on the plus here and change to 2D animation 2D animation right here so there
we go.
Then we've got our 2D animation interface.
Now for me the first thing I'd like to do is get rid of this white background that to me is just too
bright.
So I'm going to choose theme here.
So that helps that I'm also going to turn my looked back on.
There we go.
So this is our 2D animation screen layout and this is going to help us with some panels over here.
But there's quite a bit of customization I want to do here before we actually get started.
So the first thing I'd like to do is just come up here and grab this corner right here and drag over.
So we get two windows here and in addition I'd like to grab this and move it up and then I want two
windows here.
So I want to grab this corner here and move it down like that to create a new window.
All right.
So this over here I'm just gonna tumble around here is going to be my 3D view where I can see the character
in 3D.
Now over here I want this to be my 2D view where I'm going to work on the face.
But the problem is in the 2D view we usually do it through the camera.
We usually have a camera that we're looking through and I had deleted the camera a long time ago.
So let's create one here.
The first thing I need to do is switch out of pose mode.
So go from pose to object mode.
And now that we're in object mode here I will go ahead and press shift a.
And then bring in a camera.
Now when I did that look at where it went.
It went over here into the control objects collection right here and therefore we can't see it because
that entire collection is hidden.
So I'm just going to take that camera and drag it up into the main scene collection here and then we
go.
So now you can see we are actually looking through the camera over here and you can see that our camera
is right here as well.
Now if we tumble out of here and we want to get back to our camera view we can always just hit the zero
key on the number pad and that will bring us back to our camera view.
All right.
So we need to move the camera around a bit hard so let's select a camera and let's open up this sidebar
here and in here what let's do is just clear the rotations here.
I'm just going to click and drag and all of those fields and type in zero and enter and that will just
turn the camera straight down.
Now we can turn it in the X a 90 degrees and that'll pop it back up there.
Now if we grab it and move it back and I want to just aim it right at the face right in here so since
the face is going to be a two dimensional image is going to be a sequence of images actually we're going
to render out a sequence of images and apply it to an object on the face for it to animate there.
And when we apply our texture we're gonna want it to be a power of two in other words Square.
We're gonna want to use textures like 10 24 or 2048 or 256.
And I think that's what we want here.
We're gonna want this 2D face image to be two hundred and fifty six by two fifty six.
So let's come over and change that for the camera here.
If we come over to the output right here we want to change this 1920 by 10 80 which is just standard
HD resolution.
I'm going to change this to two 56 by 256.
And that is how big the texture is going to be for our our face images.
Now we can scale the camera down here it's pretty big in the sea and I'll just hit s and scale down
like this.
Just for our view here in the 3D view it doesn't change anything it just makes the representation of
it in the 3D view a little smaller.
And I'll just grab this and move it so it's about I don't know it's about like this.
Let's give this a try.
I kind of want to get it pretty close there like that.
There we go.
So we're gonna work on the 2D face here in this view and as we do this we're gonna want this camera
to stay put no matter how we move the character around.
So if we grab say the head control up here maybe I'll go to pose mode and select that if we just move
this.
Currently the camera stays where it is.
We want it to move with the head.
So I want to parent this camera to the head bone of the character to do that.
We need to enable this second layer again.
So I'll just press shift and click here.
And then if I come down here to this panel the object data and viewport we can choose in front again.
We had turned it off previously but for now we want to enable it so we can see in here.
And this is the bone we want to parent the camera to.
So let's do that.
Let's select the camera right here and then I'm gonna shift select this bone right here so I clicked
once I shift clicked once and now I'm going to shift click again right here.
Now we're going to parent the camera to the bone with control P and I'm going to choose bone.
And then we go.
So now if we turn this layer off right here and then select that head bone we can hit are two times
again.
And now you can see the camera just rolls with the head so no matter where that character goes that
camera's always going to be there and that's what we want.
Now we'll be able to draw and animate the 2D face here while the character is moving around in the 3D
view.
All right.
So let's go ahead and hide that camera away now.
I'll just click here to hide that.
All right.
Now the next thing we need to do is create an object that we're going to apply those textures to once
we get into unity we're going to need an object to apply our image sequences too.
So what we need to do now is come back into object mode here select our character and then we're going
to tab into edit mode.
And here we're going to maybe go to face select and we need to select the faces that are going to be
the face.
So I think all we're gonna need is just these bases here.
I don't think we're gonna have the eyes spin around to the side of the head or the mouth go down below
the chin or anything.
So I think this is pretty much the bounds of the 2D face.
So with these selected what let's do.
I'm going to select the character scene collection right over here.
So with these selected let's go ahead and duplicate these with shift D and enter and then I just want
to pull them out just a little bit so I'll go to the my move tool here and hit the period key to zoom
in and let's just pull this out just a tiny little bit.
I'm just going to pull it out in the y just a smidge like that.
So it's out from the mass.
Just a tiny bit.
And then once I've done that I want to split it out as its own object to do that.
I'm going to press the p key and that will bring up the separate menu and we can choose selection.
And then we go by tab back into object mode.
I can select just that piece and there it is.
We've got it called character 0 0 1 but that's not what we want.
Let's call this something that will really help us once for in unity know what is what I think what
we need to do is let's call this geometry let's call this geo base idol.
Let's do that.
So we know what it is and we know it's geometry as opposed to a material and that that's going to be
or that can get confusing here as we go into the future.
All right.
So now we've got this as its own object what we should do is take away any of the modifiers that the
original object had on it.
If we go over to the modifiers panel here you can see we've still got that armature modifier on that
face and we don't want that.
So let's just delete this armature modifier from this new object we still have it here with our character
we need it here.
But for this we don't need it.
Now what let's do is go ahead and do the same thing we did with the camera parent.
This object to the headphone because we want this to move with the headphone before we do that let's
make sure the origin of the object is where we want it to be.
I think where I'd like it to be is right in the center of the face right here so if I go to edge mode
and select that edge maybe right there would be good.
Let me move the cursor with shift s cursor to selected and it looks like I may have turned off the cursor.
Let me come over here to overlays.
Sure enough.
Let me turn on cursor there.
There we go.
So we can see the 3D cursor there.
Now let's tap back into object mode and go to object set Origin and Origin to 3d cursor.
And that will bring the origin of this object right there.
That's good.
Now let's parent it.
Let's go back to our rig turn on that layer too.
We'll go to post mode.
Meet drag this over.
We'll go to post mode here.
Then we'll select that new object shift click the bone and once again.
And there we go.
Control P and parent to bone.
Now if we select that object right there or that control now we can see that that object is parents
to the head bone as well.
And that's good.
That's the object that we're going to apply the 2D images to.
All right.
We're making progress here.
But in the next video we will continue with setting up the interface.
And we need to work on these timelines down here.